---
title: The Cast of the Realm of Aurii
categories: article
tags: aurii-pin gm-blog aurii

---

A listing of the characters playing in the game. 

---

## Elfriede Faun
*Male Wolf Lagu (no ears)*

Traits:
* 5 - We do it the right way (Will do things that seem just in the eyes of his goddess/himself)
* 4 - Hard to Anger, Hard to Calm down
* 3 -  Smarty pants (knows a lot and will let you know)
* 1 - Afraid of true self (Will try to avoid beast form in all but the very worst circumstances and even then he will hate himself over it)

[Backstory](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HaMPnp4vITuSATE-HT98HlG_D5by6FtNcJlNslVG9go/edit?usp=drivesdk)

---

## Afina Tyndall
*Human*

Traits:
* 4 - If You Can’t Make Them See the Light... (Afina’s childhood tutor was a nun in the clergy; as a result, Afina was exposed to light magic at an early age, despite minimal religious affiliation. The kingdom of [kingdom] has no official religion, but rather believes that knowledge is the key to living a complete, full life, and one should be more concerned with the knowledge they gain in life than what * happens to their soul after death)
* 4 - Make Them Feel the Heat (Spirited and stubborn, Afina is the last person to get into an argument with. She sticks to her guns at all costs, and believes that she’s the most qualified to speak about almost any matter. There’s few she yields to in an argument, usually only * mentors and occasionally family members. Her haughty nature is what put her in her current situation anyways.)
* 4 - Better Read Than Dead (Assumes everything is like it is in the books, meaning random trivia and niche subject matters are her forte. Otherwise, common sense things can sometimes go over her head) 
* 1 - Water You Talking About (Afina only recently became serious about her status as next in line for the throne; Her [family member] was declared lost at sea three years ago. Bringing up the situation makes her aggressive about opening up about it. It has also caused her to have a deep fear of ships and maritime affairs.) BACKSTORY (plus tv tropes and misc info): 

[Backstory](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uTcqVzD2uJaIAcC5n1OckW9H3mTg1tJAsrcgVU6f1tM)

---

## Tikur Triune Ishkabible 
*Wolf Laguz*

Traits:
* 5 - Trait 1: Tactical Thinker (Has been in many arena battles with his brother so he will size up opponents and use what is the best * strategy for the group.  Can sometimes treat real battles like arena battles and not think of the consequenses.)
* 3 - Trait 2: Moves like a cat (Tikur learned the ins and outs of his wolf form with his cat foster parents. He moves and fights more like a cat than a wolf, light on his feet and graceful. Sometimes his larger form keeps him from moving the way he needs to though.) 
* 3 - Trait 3:  Balanced Fighter (Has used magic and swordsmanship in many battles and is very comforatble and quick to switch between * magical tomes and combat. He's just sometimes not quick enough..."you wanna know how i got these scars?")
* 3 - Trait 4: Practice Makes Perfect (Will always make sure that he has done at least an hour of practicing swordsmanship and magic.  Even * if he is worn out and exhausted he will practice, sometimes making injuries worse, or straining himself.)
* 1 - Weaknes: Ptsd ( Sometimes things trigger flashbacks of his families death sending him into a rage.)

[Backstory](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1svtD7EpO-pqiPfY5ovXNV1_o0MF4QItP3KUMW5ufU1Y/edit?usp=drivesdk)

---

## Nokri Lyleon 
*Human*

Traits:
* 5 - Unreliable expositor (habitual liar)
* 4 - Potion? Poison? Eh, who knows, just drink it (experimental and never-before-tried potions can either heal or hurt)
* 3 - YOLO (will do the first thing that comes to mind and deal with the consequences later)
* 1 - Professional Butt-kisser (a suck-up to authority figures, will say whatever they want to hear)

[Backstory](https://tinyurl.com/NokriInfo)

---

## ZaRel
*Manakete*

Traits:
* 5 - Draconic Bruiser (can land a punch, but not very good at avoiding them in dragon form)
* 4 - Chronic Multitasker (can multitask spectacularly, but can't concentrate on any single thing)
* 3 - Agile Acrobat (can dodge just about anything, but can't retaliate when in human form)
* 1 - Outlander (No knowledge of world politics due to isolation)

[Backstory](https://tinyurl.com/ZaRelInfo)

---

## Aldus Larian
*Wolf Laguz*

Traits:
* 5 - Show-off Archer (can hit a target a mile away, if he didn't have to do a backflip first.)
* 4 - Charismatic but Self Deprecating (Fake it till you make it. All his bragging would make you think Aldus is quite in love with himself, he’s highly convincing) 
* 3 - Sympathetic Wanderer (has a mission can be pulled away to help others) 
* 1 - Species Outlier (Cannot transform into wolf form, is sensitive about it but will try to blow it off)

[Backstory](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NkyW_IWh1HYzSY2hvAlT_KIkuwj9AyzHTLY_JATJX6Y/edit?usp=sharing)

---

## Ewan the Broken Black Mage
*Human*

Specialty: Necromancy

Traits: 
* 5 - It's good to give 'em a name, makes 'em easier to work wi- MURPHY NO! - (Ewan has dedicated his life to the art of Necromancy, as such he has mastery over summoning the undead and control his summon, Murphy [the name Ewan has given to the life force that inhabits the flesh and bones used for his summon]. Ewan has an array of tomes to make use of Murphy for problem solving and combat, but limited utility and spells outside of summons)
* 4 - If I cannot bring Knoll back, then we will not find peace until my sins are redeemed- (Ewan’s is highly motivated and feels responsible to stop the Dryn expansion and kill his mentor, who he feels betrayed his trust. Now a caucious loner, Ewan cannot form strong bonds, but hes also harder to trick or persuade. Ewan feels obligated to help those affected by Dryn, but he views everything, and everyone else as a distraction)
* 3 - Our memories keep loved ones alive- (Knoll's spirit follows Ewan and is in tune with the dead. Acting as a cat, It can mark people or places of interest. It can feel for an evil presence, or channel a restless soul for communication. Some spirits should be left alone, and straining evil or restless souls can have terrible consequences)
* 1 - The undead have a funky smell- (Dark magic is considered taboo on its own, but necromancy is often considered the unholiest of disciplines to master. Not everyone Ewan meets in his travels will embrace him)

[Backstory](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jwVbYwaxAhQ8KxwfH456tVKqZAcQwyjA66JtaWbHjfw/edit)

---

## Ienzo the Wanderer
*Human*

Traits:
* 5 - I don't use weapons, I'm my own weapon
* 4 -"You have to be patient to catch a fish" (Ienzo learned to fish well while captured by pirates, lest he didn't get dinner. Ienzo knows how to wait for the opportune moment in when doing something to get the best result.)
* 3 - Followed by a unsavory reputation. (Negative rumors are tied to his name, when his name gets out people show signs of fear, but dosent mean he won't use it to help get out of sticky situations.)
* 1- Try to escape the fog of hatred. (looking for anything to help distract him from his vice, the near mention of pirates bring out his inner dark thoughts.)

[Backstory](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13DG5f4YfBxWGCtgtlWkpN8R1Ae1G2T3HQHC1OR_6a8Y/edit?usp=sharing)

---

## Atalantia
*Wolf Laguz*

Traits:
* 5 - One with the Blades  (Master with dual blades, but feels lost and as if she's missing part of her when she doesn't have access to her custom-made blades while in human form)
* 4 -But being a wolf is so much better (must use her wolf form in order to hunt, track, and scout. She has no knowledge of how to do these things while in human form because her pack has only trained her to do these things as a wolf)
* 3 - This is my travel song~  (I love to sing and I sound like a goddess when I do, but when I travel I will always sing ---> which will typically sound like howling because I only really travel in wolf form). 
* 1 - Where's the Nearest Bath House? (Does not like getting white fur dirty, and feels compelled to wash iher fur if it does get dirty)

[Backstory](https://tinyurl.com/AtalantiaInfo)

---

## Kailyn
*Cat Laguz*

Traits:
* 5 - Can talk my way out of any situation (which happens a lot because she thinks she is stealthy)
* 4 - City girl (Not big on outdoors)
* 3 - Agile, not strong (I’m fast on my feet, but make me carry a boulder and I’m out.)
* 1 - I’m a little bit kinky (Not so good at breaking out of restraints. There is something to being roughed up, having someone hold you down only to convince them that they're wrong)

[Backstory](https://tinyurl.com/kailyin)

---

## Mobius Cantaret 
*Human*

Traits:
* 4 - Deadshot: As a member of the Cantaret, Mobius has been trained in how to make, maintain, and use a special Composite bow (Idea based of Mongol Composite Bow).
* 4 - Deadly Playing/Don’t touch me Lute: Has a lute with a small blade in it thats used for emergencies
* 4 - Definitely up to no good: Along with his performative and martial abilities, Mobius has picked up a bad habit as a poor boy, which is that of a pickpocket, and lockpick. 
* 1 - Doesn’t Even Lift: While Mobius can be quick, and is good with his hands, his upbringing as a poor fallen noble meant that he didn’t grow up strong. In fact, beyond when he uses his bow, he is kinda weak, and while he can handle his luggage well enough, it's a bit much to expect him to do any strenuous lifting. 

[Backstory](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l8DJMwSBK6G_NXZknwwe1JBGCes7WocOwjBnse29zYU/edit?usp=sharing)