---
title: How this Play by Post will work
categories: article
tags: aurii gm-blog
excerpt: The results and resulting decision of the primer.
---

I've looked through all the results sent in and the trends in them are fairly clear, enough so I'm comfortable with making the calls you'll find in the document below. This is going to be updated, more than likely, as we iron out more details going forward. I'm posting it this way for two reasons, the first of which is I love that I can write my markdown files and easily have them rendered on my domain. The latter is it can't get lost in the chat. I may continue to do this in the future for things, so bookmark [this](thelittlethingswemiss.us/playbypost) for the directory of posts related to the play by post. (That page is not part of the main website, so there's no link from the homepage to the link above.)

## Question 1: Names.

Yeah, this has nothing to be noted. I'm just amazed how in sync some of you are going *Firstname "Meme" Lastname*. Like a quarter of you did it. Not even the people who know each other. Damn.

## Question 2 and 7: Familiarity with rules

Maybe it was because of what I defined one as (I thought it was clever) but everyone is 5 or greater as far as comfort level. The mean is 6 though, so while we will introduce a rule system it won't be anything complex. This is also in part due to the fact we don't want the rule system to slow us down anymore than the Play by Post already will be.

With that in mind, I was bouncing between two rule systems in my head for the game: **Fate** and **Wushu**. I'm currently leaning towards **Wushu**. Here is a link to the [rules](http://danielbayn.com/wushu/)  so you can make your own opinion (Read the first two parts of part one and you should be good. Cut fu is amusing.), but here's why I'm leaning towards it. 

* The game rewards you for narrating detail into your action. The more detail, the more dice you get to roll. While you won't be narrating for the PbP, you will be writing. It serves as mechanical encouragement for taking care to write detail into what your doing. That seems fitting to me.
* The number of things that make up your "character sheet" can fit on an index card. Not in size 6 font either, more like one item per line. This leads to less tables, less rules question, and more focus on the above point. 
* There is a note, I believe in the third part of part one, which talks about running the game as a play by post. It's been done before, I've seen other recommendations to using it as well. 
> This note also recommends **GM rolling all dice in the case of Play by Post**. I may adopt this stance. It's not one I usually like, but it will save time in rounds and keep every post about action, not "I rolled a 4."
* Finally, it sounds fun. It should match any excitement level we're going for, even at a low tempo.

This is quite set in stone. If you read [Fate](https://1drv.ms/b/s!ArFPHHkgdiQkhoIH6dHrxkISCF3I-w) (link to my PDF copy of Fate Accelerated) and say you really like that, you can bring that up to me and the rest of the group. If you have some other idea (such as a ruleless game like many forum ones are) you want to pitch, you're welcome to as well. 

As for question 7, as I mentioned above Wushu, and Fate really, are light on rules. This is because RP was more popular than Game in the survey, the peak of the curve at 3. These two systems mechanically encourage you to act in character and will support you in doing so. For those who leaned towards Game, don't stress it. If the majority was towards game I'd have looked at using a heavier rule system to capture that tactical, strategy aspect of those games. Granted, those kinds of games don't mesh well with Play by Post, but where there's a will there's a way and all that.

## Question 3: Genre

Unsurprisingly Fantasy was most popular by a landslide. It had three times the votes of the second place genres RWBY and Science Fiction. There's not much question here as to what to do. That we're doing **Fantasy** is pretty much **set in stone**. 

How this will work is something I'm going to be thinking about in the coming week. I would like to put out feelers on the idea of, rather than *High Fantasy* such as D&D and Lord of the Rings, we do *Low Fantasy*. Examples of Low Fantasy are Fire Emblem and Game of Thrones to an extent. In particular I'd like to work with a Fire Emblem feel. What magical things exist in the world are rather rout, normal parts of life. There isn't a catalog of races in the world, and magical creatures appearing is something to write home about. I'd like opinions on this idea before I dig too deep into it. 

## Question 4: Character

Everyone said they'd like to know the setting first. I don't know what I really expected, I'd want to know that myself. So we'll come back to this.

## Question 5 & 6: Drive to the story

The options here were an epic story ala the Lord of the Rings versus something opened ended or a 'sandbox' game. There was also episodic adventures, but there was not much for it. The biggest section of the Venn Diagram this turned into is an **epic storyline**, followed closely by sandbox. The good news is episodic stories can role into the the sandbox. 

Now I just said an epic storyline won, but I'm talking about rolling the episodics into sandbox. Quite frankly, it works out to have half the group working on either smaller scale or character specific goals while the other is involved in the epic storyline. Having the whole group actively working together would be akin to a small army. Those not on the epic storyline will be able to form smaller groups that have their own goals and objectives as characters. I'd prefer to have groups, and not single characters running around for extended periods, but if the story demands it so be it.

So my vague plan is to have character or small scale arcs going on in addition to the larger plotline. They can cross, interweave, and separate, but they won't always line up. In the case of something with a Fire Emblem spin, that could be the epic plot group dealing with a brewing war between country A and B while the individual stories take everyone else cross the continent (or in the capital of country A) to fulfill their own goals. How this will work will start to take shape as you all create characters and we iron out the setting. 

## Question 8: Mood

I don't know what I expected here either. Everyone basically wants a mix of fun and light hearted with the occasional serious moment. Works for me, moving on. 

## Question 9: Medium of Play:

The results said, surprisingly, that ***Email*** was the preferred form of--|

Yeah, no one said email. The battle was fought entirely between forum and Discord, and the majority fell on Discord. The invite link is [right here](https://discord.gg/uPUCUGn) and I'll be setting that up over the next few days. If anyone needs a primer on Discord, I will be happy to help you learn the ins and outs of the app and I'm sure the others will chime in as well. Some of the primary reasons, beyond the majority for discord include:
* Easy mobile access. Posting to forums, at least in my experience, sucks on mobile. This is important for a few people in the group.
* Markdown-esk text formatting. *I mentioned I like markdown right?*
* While Discord notifications are pretty bad, forum notifications come in as email and as I joked before no one wants to work with emails. 

The above said, a forum may be good to post to for recording things. Flipping through backlogs is great, but it'll be easier to read on a forum or maybe just a document somewhere. This is something we can tackle later.

## Question 10: Frequency of Play

The running was tight for frequency of play. Coming in first was twice a week, followed closely by three times a week and then daily posting. Weekly rounded out the last of the votes, nothing went unselected. By the majority, we'll start with twice a week. I don't see a problem changing that if we find it's too few. 

I'm expecting to do a post as GM on **Monday mornings and Wednesday Mornings**. You'll have to reply before the next post to be included in a turn. While you have two days to make the first post and 5 for the second, I think this will balance out. If you're doing things on the weekend posting for the game wil probably fall by the way side. Not counting those two days, two days to post followed by three works with a two day break for our busy lives.
> FTR, if we advance to three you'll probably have to post on the weekend. I'd be posting Monday, Wednesday, and Friday mornings. 

## Question 11: Missing players:

The majority of answers here lead to the GM playing them. When we get closer to starting, I'll confirm if there's anyone who would rather be standing around than have their character played by me. I'll be happy to respect that opinion.

## Conclusion

Thank you all for taking the survey seriously and contributing so much information. I'm glad everyone's so excited to be involved in this. Here's the next steps.
* If you're in on everything above, that's great! Join the discord, as future updates are going to come in there. 
* If what's come out of the survey isn't something your interested in (I hope not), that's okay too. If you'd like, you can still join the Discord and follow the story, or look for any announcement that might make the game more appealing to you.

The long and short of those options is joining the Discord isn't a commitment to playing either. That commitment to playing will mostly likely be when you submit your character to me, once the setting is ironed out. So if you want to stay along for the ride, join up. 