---
title: Survey Replies
categories: article
tags: gm-blog aurii
excerpt: Replies to survey answers. 
---

# Responses

* **Comfort with the Mechanics**: Four people replied `3` to the survey, while 2 replied `4`. I suppose, given I do most of the mechanical work behind the scenes, that'd make sense. If you'd like to clarify anything feel free to ask and I can explain the rules more indepth anytime. If there's anything you specifically don't like about the way the rules work, you can bring that up as well.
* **Racism**: We have a lot of this going around already. There were people looking for both more and less Racism, and I personally want to explore some other aspects of opposition, like political enemies. So I'd like to dial down the racism a little bit, though the fact that a group of laguz bandits were the first group of enemies certainly made racism seem more important than it actual is. I don't think any action is needed here though, the scenarios going forward are going to naturally have other aspects to work with. 
* **Politics**: Ya'll want politics, I want politics, so get to dem polticis. I intended from the start to have the nations be a key part of the game and they certainly can. Getting involved with Eraia will get you into the war, as will with Dreca. Wynne is a bit distant right now, but if you want to go there I already know what their political situation is like. Theanovene has a lot more going on than you saw in the opening sequences if you explore *(the alamanacs can give you hints)* and Callora has tensions with Eraia. Where ever you choose to get involved, you'll be seeing plenty more of the other nations.
* **Faster Pace**: While I understand the request, I can't keep up with any faster than this and I don't others can as well. I originally started this to have something to do casually on the train. I take the train less (doing car travel one day and two days working from home) and even if I wasn't there's a lot to keep up with. Pace is going to be locked at 2 a week.
* **Character Connections**: This has been around for awhile. We've also beaten it to death in ooc, but for what it's worth everyone is doing a fine job with their characters. Just because we have the golden children Elfriede and Afina doesn't mean your characters aren't doing well. The two characters play into a trope and they evolved out of the trope over the course of months of game play.
* **Character Journals**: These exist, I can toss them up on the site in the dedicated section for them anytime. You write it, I'll host it. 
* **More Asides**: Asides are always open, and can be started whenever you'd like. Have at it. 
* **Storyline**: Some people have expressed interest in a larger storyline they can be a part of. The largest storyline going on is the war and things going on between the nations. As said under politics, getting involved in politics will start roping you into things. If the war isn't the kind of story you'd like to see for your character, discussion can take place to see what we can get you to. 
* **Mysteries and Legends**: I've actually got quite a few mysteries in the game lore already, they just seem to be in the opposite direction you guys want to go in. If you join up on a larger scale quest, I can work you in those directions or find new mysteries to reveal.
* **More Downtime**: So given the pace of a game like this, I've taken the stance that the events that move you forward take place in posts. Doing downtime in posts leaves you doing something that doesn't advance the 'action' or scene, which will make the game even slower. The best option to do any downtime activities is in an aside, as that's what asides are there for. Asides let you highlight your character's traits, interact directly with other characters, advance a personal storyline (character development stories), etc. In video game terms, it's the little side scenes that pop up in between main cutscenes.
* **Threat of Death**: An interesting thought, pointing out that I said I won't be killing characters without player input unless you do something really stupid. It does take away some of the threat to combat. This game is a very much character and character interaction based game, and some bad die rolls kill your character when you invested all this time into them isn't fun. THAT SAID, don't treat the above as there are no consequences. There is always a Fate Worse Than Death scenario, critical wounding, and external consequences. You might not die sure. But I hope your character likes living with the fact that they failed and got a whole village razed to the ground. I can be mean if I want to be.
* **Mood**: Almost everyone wants to make the world a bit darker. I'll keep that in mind with events going forward.
* **More Dabs**: Banned. 