---
title: NPC Directory
categories: aurii
tags: aurii_key
excerpt: A directory of all the NPCs encounters in Aurii
---

<!-- TOC -->

- [Wynne](#wynne)
- [Callora](#callora)
    - [Hylley](#hylley)
        - [Orar & Lac](#orar--lac)
- [Theanovene](#theanovene)
    - [Regalus & Tial](#regalus--tial)
    - [Itory](#itory)
    - [Ria Schytas](#ria-schytas)
    - [Taiver Uori](#taiver-uori)
    - [Carya Witella](#carya-witella)
    - [Osbury Nonim](#osbury-nonim)
- [Eraia](#eraia)
    - [Morras Raive](#morras-raive)
    - [Ransford Gale](#ransford-gale)
    - [Soldiers](#soldiers)
- [Dreca](#dreca)
- [The Circus](#the-circus)
    - [Niya](#niya)
    - [Myra & Alysa](#myra--alysa)
    - [Performers](#performers)
- [Unaligned](#unaligned)
    - [Laguz Bandits](#laguz-bandits)
        - [Rica](#rica)
        - [Bandits](#bandits)

<!-- /TOC -->

# Wynne

# Callora

## Hylley

### Orar & Lac

Two enforcers of a local criminal group. They're large men who choose to dress sharp, both specializing in hand to hand combat. Orar has a much calmer personality than Lac, whose much more hot headed.

* Orar wears steel guantlets that both protect his wrists and let him backhand people hard. Lac uses bronze knuckles.
* **Elrian**: The two were chasing Eliran for interferring with their business.

# Theanovene

## Regalus & Tial

Owners of the Golden Goblet shop in the open air market of south west Thenovene. A married couple. 

* Regalus is a large man with black hair. Despite the large and rather muscular frame, he's never fought a day in his life. 
* **Nokri**: Regalus lent his shop front to Nokri so Nokri had a place to set up her own shop. It was a business heavy relationship, given Nokri's quirky personality, but Regalus took a shine to the girl and her problem ridden life.

## Itory 

Butler to the Tyndall family house in Thenovene. He dresses well and acts the part and it's earned him the respect of the Tyndalls. He has a good amount of life experience and has a good sense for when to share it.

* Blond with a well groomed mustache, Itory is young for the typical butler, in his mid thirties. 
* **Afina**: He's worked for Afina for enough time to know how the girl ticks. He is patient with her and know that suggesting things to her as her own ideas is the best way to advise her. 

## Ria Schytas

The chair of the glassblower guild on the Theanovene council and the as well as the lead chair. 

* Ria is a young, early twenties girl with short blonde hair. She often has soot on her clothes and face from her work, covering the freckles on her face. Even on council business she wears a heavy apron from the glassblowing guild. 
* **Tikur**: She personally requested Tikur looking to Tavier Uori's visit to Eraia for actions that go against against the Theanovene Charter. 

## Taiver Uori

Leader of the tanner's guild in Theanovene. 

* **Tikur**: Ria Schytas asked Tikur to look into Taiver activities.

## Carya Witella

Carya Witella is a Theanovene Sage of light magic. 

* **Afina**: Carya is Afina's mentor in light magic.

## Osbury Nonim

A Sage from Theanovene. He resides in a tower in the Northeast quad of Theanovene. 

* An old man with a long grey beard. He wears tailored but simplistic sage's robes. 
* **Nokri & Aldus**: Osbury shared the story of his apprentice gone rogue, a young progidy named Anis. The apprentice was tricked into joining Dryn Wulfa in Dreca.

# Eraia

## Morras Raive

The cardinal of Lylalel's church in Trisp. 

* **Afina**: Approved a request by Afina's mentor for the young noble to visit Trisp to study light magic. 

## Ransford Gale

Ransford Gale is a commander in the Eraian military. He is currently stationed at the Theanovene-Eraia border and maintains the garrison there. A decorated veteran, with a jovial personality until you try and tell him what to do. Very dedicated the military and Lylalel.

* Ransford is a burly man, with massive shoulders. He has salt and pepper hair, with a mostly salty mustache. He wears old beat up armor pieces all the time, adding to the size of his shoulders and chest. He is in his mid 50's.
* **Afina**: Afina has tried to inform Ransford of the best way to handle her injured compatriot and the conversation became quite heated. 
* **Elfriede**: Ransford has repremanded Elfriede after Elfriede allowed his group to fight bandits unassisted for no particular reason.

## Soldiers

* **Narder**: A large man who practices healing magic at the Theanovene-Eraia border garrison.

* **Anderas**: A bright eyed new soldier stationed in Theanovene, was tasked with guarding the draconic ZaRel.
* **Serith**: A hard edged soldier stationed in Theanovene, in charge of guarding the draconic ZaRel. (Female, if not obvious.)

# Dreca

# The Circus 

## Niya

The leader of the circus troupe. Has been running the circus for more years than her daughters have been alive. 

* Niya is a Kissaelain laguz with dirty blonde hair. She is busty and a muscular frame. She has an eyepatch over her right eye. 

## Myra & Alysa

Kissaelain sisters, teen daughters of the circus owner Niya. 

* Myra has blonde hair with brown fur on her laguz features. Her hair is cut in a pixie style. 
* Alysa has brown hair with blond laguz features. She is taller than Myra and has medium length hair. 
* **ZaRel**: The girls took to ZaRel when joined the circus, treating him like a odd little brother. 

## Performers

* **Jorg**: A big man with a massive mustache. Handles the heavy lifting for the trapezee group and preforms on occasion. 

# Unaligned

## Laguz Bandits

### Rica

The leader of the Laguz Bandits operating on the Theanovene-Eraian border. <!-- She used to living the Kissaelain territories before Dreca invaded, and lost many to the Drecians. When she arrived at Eraia for aid and refuge, they treated her like dirt and it stuck with her. She gathered others who were shunted by racism and Dreca's war, building a camp and stealing what the humans kept from them. Years later she's amassed quite a group and she cares for the lot of them.  -->

* Rica is small for a tiger laguz, under well under 6 feet. Her entire body is toned and muscular and you can see much of her arms given her unsleeved arms under her gauntlets. Her hair is platinum blonde and short, while her laguz tail and and ears have furry of a golden blond. She wields a battleaxe almost as large as her. 

### Bandits

* **Rudi**: A bandit watchman at the laguz bandit camp by the Theanovene-Eraian border.
* **Anneke**: A bandit watchwoman at the laguz bandit camp by the Theanovene-Eraian border.
* **Onfroi**: A bandit watchman at the laguz bandit camp by the Theanovene-Eraian border.
* **Archaim**: A bandit watchman at the laguz bandit camp by the Theanovene-Eraian border.

---

