---
title: Personal Shoot FAQ
categories: blog
tags: pinned
excerpt: My FAQs for con photography. 
---

## I Am A...

Here's my quick IMA, my name is Bill Clark. I've been shooting since January 2016 (my first camera was a christmas present 🎁) and have been involved in the con cosplay community since Zenkaikon 2017. I started the prior because my grandfather was a photographer and I inherited some of his talent. I started the latter to make new friends. My other hobbies include tabletop and war games, anime (*obviously*), archery, and video gaming. I'm a NY Giants fan, even when they suck, and love New York City. Random fact: I own six different Seiko watches with I rotate through every day; this fact contributes to my hatred of daylight savings time. 

## Answers to the typical photographer questions (*at cons anyway*):

* **Cost**: I don't ask for anything to take photos. *I'd recommend reading the section below on the topic though.*

* **Length of shoot**: As long as there are photos to shoot; assuming I have no other engagement.

* **How many photos returned**: Anything that looks good. That averages around 30 usually.

* **Turn around time**: I work full time with a 2 hour commute; photography is my passion not my job. I can't guarantee exactly when I'll finish everything, especially considering how many I tend to keep in the set. *I can of course, get you a single shot for contest entry or what have you if you need one right away. That's not a problem.*

* **Edits**: I don't do any photoshop work. It's not something I'm interested in. I do some post production but for photography things; underexposure and noise reduction, etc. (*Yes, this means no flames. You know who you are.*)

* **Sharing**: I publish on this site using flickr for the backend; uploading web resolution images. Download, share, post, what have you; just give me a credit line so people can find their way back to the site. **If you want to print:** contact me. I can get you full resolution images which will print better. 

* **What will you shoot**: As mentioned before, photography is my passion. I'm willing to do just about anything, just ask. 

* **Suggestions**: I take any and all. Anytime you want to do something during a shoot, before a shoot, after a shoot (somehow), *say it*. Be it a different pose, a prop idea, a location, or anything else I'd like to hear it. 

**Final note: I don't self promote. (*reasoning for that below*) I really operate on a "by request" basis. If you don't see a stereotypical 'here are my rates' post from me, it's because I don't do them; not because I won't shoot for you. Ask and ye shall receive.**

## Cost, Promotion & Requests

Cost gets expanded on a bit. I don't charge anything to take photos. Not only because it's my passion to do so and I relish the opportunity, but because (as mentioned before) I started doing shoots to make friends. I am **not** look for clientele, and charging is how you make a business relationship in my opinion. I'm not terrible interested in "all business" interactions with photography. If you want someone to snap photos of you and move on to the next client, that's not really me. 

As mentioned before, I don't self promote (*though I have some wonderful friends who do on my behalf ❤️*) and the reason for that is the same as why I don't charge; it's makes my passion and hobby too much of a business. I'm not interested in selling you on my work; if you like it I'd be happy to work with you but I see no need to convince you to. 

**Again, I work by request usually. Don't hesitate to ask me about whatever you're thinking.**

## Tips

All that said, any tip you'd like to give is appreciated. Beyond monetary tips (I've received a few here and there) I'm also game for *whatever screwball idea you can think of.* I'm keeping a running log of quirky tips and am *very* eager to see it expand. If you're feeling like something more in between, I'll never turn down soft pretzels (*or any pretzel thing really*) or a free drink. In an ideal world, either of those shared with you, my new friend, would be fantastic.

<!-- **That said**, I will accept tips. Tips are accepted in the following formats:
    
* **A)** Pick up the first round at the hotel bar so we can sit and chat;  

* **B)** Some kind of pretzel related food-bribe, such as soft pretzels or pretzel M&Ms; 

* **C)** If you aren't of age, offering to a buy a round before snapping one's finger's and saying in a loud, over exaggerated voice: 
  > "Golly jee wilkers Mr Photographer man, I did have every gosh good intention to buy you that there drink, I swear! I'll be sure to remember when I'm as old you mister, so let me off the hook just this once?"

*Only points "B" and "C" above are sarcastic. **Have your own screwball idea for a tip?** Below is a list of the eccentric and unique tips I've received in the past. I'll not only be happy to receive your unique tip idea but I'll be sure to immortalize it by adding it to the list. Also find a running total of the number of golly jee wilkers I've received as tips.* -->

## The Eccentric Tip Jar 

### (Golly Jee Wilkers Count: 5)

* Tipped with dinner by Beacon's Headmaster and Assistant Headmaster for photographing one of their students, four year tournament champion Pyrrha Nikos, a wonderful young maiden. (For some reason she won't be able to attend yearbook picture day later in the year, go figure.)